So let's work on the password validation
now, the password validation is special because the passwords should be equal.
Now how can we check for equality,
how does this work?
Let's go down to validations
first of all and let's define a validator for the first password field, I'll name it password
and I definitely want this to be required,
now I also want to ensure that it has a minimum length let's say,
so let's import minLength here.
With that, I can now add this minLength validator and it works a lot like minValue, I'll name it minLen,
you could name it minLength of course, use the minLength here and this also is a function where I need
to pass the length,
so here I want to say have at least six characters. That also by the way is a requirement by firebase,
so this actually fits firebase.
So now I got the minLength,
this should make sure that we correctly validate the first input, to find out if we do,
let's go to the input which wraps the first password
and let's add the class binding here to also bind to a javascript object as we did before
and let's bind invalid here to $v.password.$error, as we did earlier.
Now with that, we also need to connect the password of course,
so I'll add the @blur event and bind this $v.password.$touch as a function
call. With that if we go back to our application, if I start typing here and click out of it, it's marked
as invalid, as soon as I enter a valid password which is more or equal to six characters long,
now you see it's valid.
Now that's great
but we want to make sure that it's actually equal to this password
or to be precise, that this second password is equal to the first one.
So for that, I'll go back to my form and I'll add another validations group here, confirm password which
should refer to the second input, there
we could also specify required and minLength but this is not really necessary because if we say that
the value has to be equal and we already require these validators on the first password, they're implicitly
also assumed on the second,
so we don't we need to check this here
instead I want to use a special built-in validator which I'll also import which is called sameAs.
Now as you probably are able to guess, sameAs allows us to check whether the value is equal to a different
value,
now I want to add sameAs here on my confirm password field so I'll name it
sameAs
but here actually, I now need to call sameAs as a function
and now to this function, you can pass two types of data.
The first is a property name of your vue instance,
so we could pass password, that's the value I'm binding to with v-model on the first password field.
Let's start with that, I can pass password and you have to make sure that you type it in exactly the
same way as your property on your vue instance is named.
Now let's find out if this works by simply going up to our form and by adding our error binding here
to the confirm password group,
we just need to update it to check for
$v.confirmPassword, if this has an error
and of course I will also connect it with @blur then,
so here I'll touch
confirm password. Let me now save this, if I go back to my application, if I enter a valid password in the
first field and I click into the second and click out of it, it's marked as invalid,
so this looks good.
If I now enter exactly the same value as in the first field,
it becomes valid, if I enter a wrong one,
it's invalid again.
So this is already working and this is how simple and easy you can add equality validations, as I said,
this is only one option though, I'll keep it around but comment it out,
the second option is that you use sameAs but you don't pass the property name but you pass a function
to it.
This can be a normal function with the function keyword or an error function,
now this function receives one argument which is the vue instance of this component,
I'll name it vm here.
Now in this function, you can simply return the property you want to compare to the value of confirm password,
so you could access vm email here to reach out to this email property or of course, you use password
which probably makes more sense and therefore is just a more verbose way of achieving what we
already had
but this is especially useful if you don't just want to check against a certain value
but let's say you wanted to check whether it's the old password plus a B at the end which makes absolutely
no sense here but which might make sense in some use cases,
let's see this in action.
If I now go back to the form, remember I have to add a B at the end, if I enter some password and I enter something
into confirm password, if I enter something that is equal, it's still treated as wrong only if I had
this b at the end,
so the old value plus b at the end is treated as valid.
Again, this doesn't make a lot of sense here but I just want to show what you can do with this function
syntax if you just want to compare it against a value,
this syntax here is shorter. But this is how you can compare or how you can validate forms for equality
and of course that is something you also need a lot.